# Fetal-Health-Classification
Machine Learning Project that uses cardiotocogram data to classify fetal health. 
Fetal health prediction in the early stage of pregnancy has long been an issue with obvious significance: spotting the problem early on can gives the oppurtunity for the health care professionals and mothers to take the correct procedural choice. Hence, our team decided to use the data set taken from Kaggle, entitled Fetal Health Classification (https://www.kaggle.com/andrewmvd/fetal-health-classification), to train a machine learning model to classify fetus' health. This data includes the number of fetal movements per second, the number of uterine contractions per second, and 22 other features from the “SisPorto 2.0: A Program for Automated Analysis of Cardiotocograms” study by the Portuguese researchers at the University of Lisbon and the University of Porto. These researchers used the Cardiotocogram, a relatively inexpensive scan, that when combined with our methods can give doctors a good idea of the state of a fetus in order to assess going through with further examination. 

The three categories of the fetus' health are suspect, healthy, and pathological. We tested various methods, including soft voting ensemble learning, random forest, Ada-boosting with decision tree, and an artificial neural network. The best result is produced by the random forest model, which gives an average recall of 0.93 and an average precision of 0.91. Specifically, the recall of pathological class is 0.966, indicating that we can detect over 96% of pathological fetus, which is a very promising.
